# Test Plan

A short test plan for Cera Care assessment.

## Objectives 🎯

The following items are going to be tested.-

* Functional testing
    * UI
        * Manual and automation testing, in Google Chrome, for Carer Jobs page.-
            * Search feature

## Deliverables 💼

Test plan and automation framework, made in JS + Cypress.

## Useful questions to ask before starting the testing process ❗️❓

* Do we have all the requirements (*Acceptance Criteria, Definition of Ready, Definition of Done*, etcetera) to perform the tests?
* Which places are stored in the database to be displayed in the searcher?
    * What happens if I set a value that is not stored in the database?
* Do we have a **UI/UX Design** team?
* Do the unit tests were created by the **Development** team?
* How much time do I have to perform the tests?
    * Am I assigned to other tasks?
* Who can I ask my questions about the feature: code, design, business rules, etcetera?
* As a carer, can I decide where to work if I apply for a vacancy who has multiple locations?

## Assumptions 🤔

* Feature is ready and deployed in *prod* environment.
* **Unit tests**.-
    * Prior review with the **Development** team, the unit tests were made according to the AC, having other unit tests that covered edge cases.
    * Unit tests have passed in the *development* environment, monitored by the Testing team (or the team in charge of that).
* **Demo**.-
    * There was a walkthrough through the functionality for the **Testing** team guided by the developer(s) who worked on the feature, and there was a double check with the **PO** (if there is), before starting the testing process.
* **Design was made according to the wireframes**.-
    * The UI, developed by the **Development** team, and UX were checked with the **UI/UX Design** team (if there is), with the suggestions talked before to test.
    * The **Development** team and the **PO** gave a brief walkthrough to the **Testing** team through the app to check what was made and if the feature met the requirements.

## Test Scenarios 💻

The following scenarios were made from a user perspective.

```gherkin
Feature: Search care assistant jobs

# As a user, I should be able to search for a care assistant job by typing a location
Scenario: Search care assistant jobs by typing a location
    Given the following value "Manchester"
    When I hit enter
    Then I should be able to see the available job openings for the search I did

# As a user, I should be able to search for a care assistant job by clicking the "Find a job near me" link button
Scenario: Search care assistant jobs by location by clicking the "Find a job near me" link button
    Given I click on "Find a job near me" link button
    Then I should be able to see the available job openings near my location

# As a user, I should not be able to see any job available if I look by a location that is not stored in the database or I am in a place where Cera Care does not have a presence
Scenario: Attempt to search care assistant jobs in a place where Cera Care does not have presence
    Given I click on "Find a job near me" link button
    When I am located in Mexico
    Then I should not be able to see any available job openings near my location
```

## Risks ☠️

* **Prod** environment could be down during testing and may delay the testing process.
* New bugs found during the execution may delay the execution of the tests proposed (manual and automation).
    * Search field may not be enabled to interact with it.
    * Search field is not connected to the API services to retrieve data.
    * Search field may not return nothing.
    * The feature may return data that does not relate to the search performed.
    * The feature was not designed according to the wireframe or is not Web responsive.
    * The UX is not intuitive.
* Time too short for testing the feature due to new bugs, changes requested, deadlines, etcetera.
* Third-party libraries for testing process may be broken or have unexpected results.
* Extraordinary events, such as vacations, illnesses, pandemics, deaths, PTOs, holidays, etcetera.
* Lack of/Ambiguous requirements to start the testing process.

### Technical discoveries (bugs 🕵️ 🔎 🐞)

Before creating the code for the automation framework, during the inspection of the Web elements, I found these interesting things.-

1. There is a lot of code that is generated by the transpiler. For example, let's take a look at the following piece of code:

```html
<div class="fieldForm_base__ya35M">
   <div class="container">
      <div class="fieldForm_wrapper__fdXL5">
         <div class="fieldForm_content__5leoD">
            <div class="heading_heading__FJJQx fieldForm_heading__guENN">
               <div class="container">
                  <h2 class="heading_title__JbHD_">Haven’t found what you were looking for?</h2>
                  <p class="That’s OK. Leave us your contact and we’ll get in touch once we have a new position in your location.">That’s OK. Leave us your contact and we’ll get in touch once we have a new position in your location.</p>
               </div>
            </div>
            <span class="fieldForm_required__AhLtS">All fields are required</span>
            <form action="#">
               <div class="fieldForm_item__A5CTz">
                  <div class="fieldForm_inputs__QnsnE">
                     <span class="fieldForm_errorMsg__iT45B"></span><input name="fullName" id="1" type="string" validationtype="string" placeholder="Full Name" validations="[object Object]" class="fieldForm_input__tvIvP " value="">
```
As you may notice, most of the HTML tags do not have a proper ID/Class identifier, or the value used for this attributes does not have a meaningful name. Some of them are repeated in other places of the DOM. If there is a change in the DOM due the transpilation of the code, the paths, IDs, classes, etc, used for the automation may cause flaky tests and there will be need to change the paths again.

2. The dropdown menu used for the search is not using the right HTML tag.
3. If I enter a location where Cera Care does not have a presence, instead of showing me an error, the app shows me a warning ("Please enter a city, town or postcode"). My suggestion is to let the user enter the term he/she wants and then display an error with a legend like "We do not have presence in the location you enter. Please, try another one".

## Staff 🧍

* **Armando Cifuentes González** ([@ArCiGo](https://www.linkedin.com/in/arcigo/))
    * *Software Engineer in Test*.
        * Experience with:
            * **Manual testing process**: *API/UI testing for Web and Mobile (Android & iOS). A little bit of UX testing*.
            * **Automation testing process**: *API/UI testing for Web. A little bit of Unit testing*.
            * **Testing practice**: *Exploratory, Smoke, e2e, Retesting and Regression testing. Software analysis*.
            * **Tools**: *Postman, C#, Java, git, Selenium, Restsharp. A little bit of JS/TS and Cypress (but open to retaking it!)*.

## Tools 🔨

The following tools are going to be used to develop the automation framework.

* **Products**
    * *Google Chrome*.
    * _Visual Studio Code_.
    * _hyper_.
    * _GitHub_.
* **Languages**
    * _JS._
    * _Markdown_.
* **SVC**
    * _git_.

### Known limitations

* Time.

## About Cera Care 🩺

Cera is a digital-first home healthcare company delivering care, nursing, telehealth and repeat prescriptions. Cera’s mission is to empower patients to live longer, better lives in the comfort of their own homes, saving the need to go to hospital. Cera’s revenue has grown 100-fold in less than three years - making it one of the fastest growing businesses in Europe.

Cera’s team of carers and nurses have delivered 25+ million at-home care appointments, visiting over 15,000 patients a day, on behalf of 300 NHS and Local Governments - equivalent in capacity to 40 NHS hospitals or 1,000 care homes. Cera’s technology is also used by over 2,000 care businesses that collectively deliver over 1 million at-home appointments per week.

Cera was co-founded by entrepreneur, physician and policy expert Dr Ben Maruthappu MBE, and its Advisory Board is Chaired by Sir David Behan, the former CEO of the Care Quality Commission. Cera’s technology and network have been recognised by industry awards including Deloitte Fast 50 (#8 in 2021, #26 in 2020), Sunday Times Fast Track, Home Care Awards’ Most Outstanding Home Care Provider. Ben was named as a finalist in Ernst & Young’s Entrepreneur of the Year Awards 2021.